# Frantic Graphics (`.GRP` files)

To run the game, only these `.GRP` files are needed. These will be copied by the make script in this repository.

This information (and in subdirectories) will be helpful if:
- you want to understand the (graphics handling) code
- you want to build the `.GRP` files from modified content

## How to build these `.GRP` files

The `.GRP` files in this directory are the final graphics binaries.

If you want to change the graphics, you need to build these files from their source graphics.
This is not supported by the make script of this repository, but it can be done by using a real MSX (or emulator).

First, unzip [this download](https://www.msx.org/downloads/anmas-frantic-sources) which includes Frantic source graphics.
Locate the file `Frantic - Graphics1.dsk` and use it with a real MSX (or emulator).

There are five `.BAS` files that are used to build the `.GRP` files, summarized in the table below:

binary to build | use this `.BAS` file | comment
-------- | ---- | -------
`FRANTIC1.GRP` | `CRINTRO1.BAS` | intro and story (+ intro sprites)
`FRANTIC2.GRP` | `CRINTRO2.BAS` | intro and story
`FRANTIC3.GRP` | `CRSTANDG.BAS` | general game graphics (+ sprites)
`FRANTIC4.GRP` | `CRSTAGES.BAS` | Job 1
`FRANTIC5.GRP` | `CRSTAGES.BAS` | Job 2 (change number in line 11)
`FRANTIC6.GRP` | `CRSTAGES.BAS` | Job 3 (change number in line 11)
`FRANTIC7.GRP` | `CRSTAGES.BAS` | Job 4 (change number in line 11)
`FRANTIC8.GRP` | `CRSTAGES.BAS` | Job 5 (change number in line 11)
`FRANTIC9.GRP` | `CRSTAGES.BAS` | Job 6 (change number in line 11)
`FRANTICA.GRP` | `CREINDE.BAS` | ending

Each `CR??????.BAS` file loads the source graphics, and then starts to crunch (=compress) the graphics to a more compact format. This crunching process can take a while.

For example, the `CRINTRO1.BAS` looks like this:
```
10 SCREEN 5
20 SET PAGE 0,0:BLOAD"PAGE1B.SC5",S
30 SET PAGE 1,1:BLOAD"PAGE2B.SC5",S
60 '
100 SL=0:         ' starting line.
110 AL=512:       ' number of lines.
120 N$="INTRO1  ":' filename
130 '
... (some lines omitted)
230 BLOAD"CRUNCH.COM",R
```

In this case, the input files with the source graphics are `PAGE1B.SC5` and `PAGE2B.SC5`.

And the output file with the converted/crunched graphics is `INTRO1.CRN` (generated by the cruncher in the `CRUNCH.COM` binary).

Finally, you should rename the converted/crunched file to the name used in the game, in this case `FRANTIC1.GRP`.











